{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh15440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ==========================================\
Bike Sharing Dataset\
==========================================\
\
Christopher Odoom\
\
Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, US,\
38 Greenleaves Drive,\
Hadley,\
03005, United State of America.\
\
\
=========================================\
Background \
=========================================\
\
Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return \
back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return \
back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of \
over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, \
environmental and health issues. \
\
Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by\
these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration\
of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into\
a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important\
events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.\
\
=========================================\
Data Set\
=========================================\
Bike-sharing rental process is highly correlated to the environmental and seasonal settings. For instance, weather conditions,\
Humidity, day of week, season, location of bike station, etc. can affect the rental behaviors. The core data set is related to  \
the four-year historical data corresponding to years 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 from Capital Bikeshare system, Washington D.C., USA which is \
publicly available in http://capitalbikeshare.com/system-data. We aggregated the data on daily basis and then \
extracted and added the corresponding weather and seasonal information. Weather information are extracted from https://www.timeanddate.com/weather/usa/washington-dc. \
\
=========================================\
Associated tasks\
=========================================\
\
	- Regression: \
                      Generalized additive model(GAM) to understand the rental behaviors given the environmental and weather condtions\
		Predication of bike rental count  daily based on the environmental and seasonal settings taken into account the membership type.\
\
\
=========================================\
Files\
=========================================\
\
	- Readme_file.txt\
	- daily.csv - bike sharing counts aggregated on daily basis together with all required weather conditions. Records: 1156 days\
\
=========================================\
Dataset characteristics\
=========================================	\
The daily.csv have the following fields\
\
	- instant: record index\
	- date: date for day\
	- season : season (spring, summer, fall, winter)\
	- Year : year (2020, 2021, 2022, 2023)\
	- Month : month ( 1 to 12)\
	- holiday : weather day is holiday or not (extracted from http://dchr.dc.gov/page/holiday-schedule) (1: holiday, 0: otherwise)\
	- weekday : day of the week (1:Monday to Friday, 0: Saturday and Friday)\
           - day : day of the week\
	- workingday : if day is neither weekend nor holiday is 1, otherwise is 0.\
	+ weather : \
		 Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy\
		 Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist\
		 Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds\
		 Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog\
	- temp : Raw temperature in Ferinheight. One can convert them to Celsius \
	- air pressure: Air pressure(atmospheric pressure) measured using barometer in mmHg.\
	- Humidity: humidity measured in percentage.\
	- windspeed: wind speed measured in \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 km/h.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
           - Visibility : \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
is the measure
\f1  
\f0 of the distance at which an object or light can be clearly discerned\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- casual: count of casual users\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- registered: count of registered users\
	- total_rentals: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered\
	\
=========================================\
License\
=========================================\
Use of this dataset in publications must be cited to the following publication:\
Yet to be done!!!!!!!!!!!\
\
=========================================\
Contact\
=========================================\
	\
For further information about this dataset please contact Christopher Odoom (odoomchristopher22@gmail.com)\
}